---
layout: post
title:  "'render' in Rails'"
date:   2016-06-23 11:43:00 -0400
categories: ruby stuff
---

What is the difference between a `render` in a controller, and a `render` in a
view? How do you pass local variables? What counts as a partial, and what doesn't?

As usual in Rails, it's *super intuitive*, but the short answer is that, in the
view layer, Rails wants to render partials, and in the controller layer, Rails
wants to render views related to actions. (Aren't those frequently the same
kind of file? Well, yes. Pretty much.)

example: if you have two files in views, "_this_is_a_partial.html.erb" and
"this_is_a_view.html.erb"

***From a view:***

this works:  
`<%= render "this_is_a_partial" %>`

this also works:  
`<%= render partial: "this_is_a_partial" %>`

this does not work-- it's looking for a file with *another* prepending underscore (__this_is_a_partial.html.erb)  
`<%= render "_this_is_a_partial" %>`

this does not work, if the partial is looking for a local variable called "stuff."
As a weird little caveat: this *can* work if the local variable in `locals:`
is never actually used in the partial  
`<%= render "this_is_a_partial", locals: {stuff: "stuff"} %>`

this works (in short, the partial needs to be explicitly called a partial in
order to pass locals. Stay on your toes, though-- this works differently in
the controller layer)  
`<%= render partial: "this_is_a_partial", locals: {stuff: "stuff"} %>`

this fails, because it is looking for a file with the prepending underscore,
_this_is_a_view_file.html.erb  
`<%= render "this_is_a_view_file" %>`

this fails too. Explicitly calling this a partial doesn't help, because this
file is not a partial. That underscore character is important.  
`<%= render partial: "this_is_a_view_file" %>`

this doesn't work at the view layer. Only from the controller. The view layer
wants partials, not actions  
`<%= render :this_is_a_view_file, locals: {stuff: "stuff"} %>`  
`<%= render :this_is_a_partial %>`


***From a controller:***


this fails-- in the controller layer, `render` *doesn't* assume that you're talking about a file starting with an underscore, so it's looking for something like "this_is_a_partial.html.erb"  
`render "this_is_a_partial"`

this works  
`render "_this_is_a_partial"`

this works  
`render "_this_is_a_partial", locals: {stuff: "stuff"}`

this fails-- when you explicitly state that the file is a partial, it looks for a filename with a leading underscore, so it's looking for "__this_is_a_partial.html.erb"    
`render partial: "_this_is_a_partial", locals: {stuff: "stuff"}`

this works  
`render partial: "this_is_a_partial", locals: {stuff: "stuff"}`

this works  
`render "this_is_a_view_file"`

this works  
`render "this_is_a_view_file", locals: {stuff: "stuff"}`

this fails-- it's looking for a file named "_this_is_a_view_file.html.erb"  
`render partial: "this_is_a_view_file", locals: {stuff: "stuff"}`

this works  
`render :this_is_a_view_file, locals: {stuff: "stuff"}`

this doesn't work  
`render :this_is_a_partial, locals: {stuff: "stuff"}`

this works  
`render :_this_is_a_partial, locals: {stuff: "stuff"}`
